
Fall 2022/23
Lecturer: Omer Ceylan
Expected Grade: A
Actual Grade: A-

1. This course was one of the courses I enjoyed the most. Primarily because I liked the content.

2. The instructor is somewhat new to teaching. As a result class attendance was at a minimum and many, including I, followed the course from the textbook (Mano and Ciletti). That being said, he is not at all unlikable or anything, Dr. Ceylan is an approachable person and reveals in his own subtle way that he really cares about his students. I'm sure that once his instruction skills improve over time, his courses will be more than enjoyable.

3. The assignments were not hard, some only took some effort. People struggled a lot with the FPGA labs, primarily due to inexperience with Verilog. Synthesis with Verilog is laden with traps and gotchas all around and is an entire topic on its own (why we have a separate course, EE310, that focuses on this exclusively) which makes it somewhat impossible to cover in depth in a couple weeks. Errors you get during design will seem cryptic at first and there exists a general paucity of information on Verilog errors and their causes. My advice, start early on the Verilog assignments and the project, and ask the TAs etc. when you struggle with Verilog concepts. They might not know everything there is to know about the subject but they will surely know more than you : ) .

4. The exams contained detailed questions regarding topics that were only briefly mentioned (not even discussed) during class hours and recitations. One such example is the Espresso algorithm used in mapping logic circuits onto programmable devices. The professor only mentioned that such algorithms exist with Espresso being one example but the final exam contained a full-blown "Trace Espresso for this design and this specific hardware" question. The course would've been more enjoyable if the curriculum and exams were more coherent with each other. 

5. Many poeple struggled to connect the idea of "finite state machines" to logic gates. This connection, while not being hard to form for a student, could be more emphasized during the lectures. 

6. I had gotten the highest exam scores in the first and second midterms, and my final grade was also much more than adequate. My lab assignments had consistently achieved full marks. Similarly, I had scored a 97 on the project assignment. I was almost 100% sure that this was a solid A but the results really disappointed me. I suspect that either a lot of people successfully objected to their final grade or that the instructor decided to place the A/A- cutoff right above my cumulative grade.

7. Many software focused computer science students felt that this course was unnecessary for their careers. If you're only going to make fancy web-apps then sure, it is pretty much useless. The main reason why it is mandatory for the CS curriculum is because you will be awarded a *computer science and **engineering*** degree. Rest assured that this course is mandatory for CS and CSE students alike in most institutions around the world, and try to excel at it for your cumulative GPA's sake.
